[Ironhide] Auxiliary thrusters!
-[Ratchet grunts] Negative!
-[Ironhide] Guidance systems!
Working on it.
I… I think I know what's happening.
Before we exited the rift,
we acquired an…
an unbelievable amount of data.
Teletraan-1 is using
every available resource
to make sense of it.
-But until it does--
-[Arcee] We're stuck.
The Dead Universe
really lived up to its name.
[Ironhide] This is crazy.
The Allspark's somewhere down on that rock
and we can't get to it.
[Prowl] At least we know the Decepticons
are having the same problem.
They haven't moved a micron
since they came through the rift.
[Ironhide] Yeah, but like Prime says,
"A wounded predator
can be the most dangerous."
Where is Prime?
[Bumblebee] Anything?
The Matrix remains closed to me.
He'll never stop killing
to achieve his ends.
He has to be stopped.
I was foolish
to believe Megatron could change.
Heed your instincts, Optimus.
You don't need a Matrix to be a hero.
Thank you for your counsel, Bumblebee.
[comms static]
Ironhide, I see you have
the comms back online.
-[Ironhide] Yeah, but we have a new--
-[Bumblebee] Prime…
[intensifying whir]
[loud crash]
I thought their weapons were down?
[Ironhide] They are.
That was their tractor beam locking on.
[Bumblebee] What can they do with a…
[creaking]
[dramatic music plays]
All hands, brace for impact.
[loud crash]
[metal scraping]
[both grunt]
[dramatic music crescendos]
[theme music plays]
Prime and his fellow cowards
abandoned ship.
[Thundercracker] Or they've lured us
into this enclosed space for an--
Attack!
-[Starscream gasps]
-[Bumblebee grunts]
[Starscream grunts]
[clatter]
[Megatron grunts]
[grunts]
[growls]
[Arcee grunts]
Let me go!
-[weapons cock]
-[Starscream grunts]
[Megatron grunts]
Why run, Prime?
You're only prolonging the inevitable.
[Prime grunts]
[Megatron laughing] Is that all?
[Prime] Not even close!
[Megatron groans]
-[Megatron grunts]
-[Prime groans]
[weapon cocks]
Last words?
[Prime] Forgive me.
[grunts]
[Megatron groans]
-[Prime grunts]
-[weapon cocks]
[laughing]
You're not going to kill me.
It's not in your nature.
[Prime grunts] I've seen what is to come,
the countless horrors
you have yet to inflict.
I can end it here
before it begins!
Is this what your Matrix has commanded?
This is my choice!
The cycle ends here!
And now with one terrible act
to prevent a billion more.
Now, tell me you forgive me.
[Cog] Optimus?
What are you doing?
[growls] Get out of here, Cog!
[Megatron grunts]
[both grunting]
[loud explosion]
[Cog yells]
-[air whistling]
-[both groaning]
[Cog groaning]
[Prime groaning]
[grunts] Well, it's about time!
[Arcee] I know that ship.
[Doubledealer] Good.
[monitor trills]
You're all together.
Doubledealer. No surprises there.
Yes!
Per your agreement with Megatron,
I order you to get us off this ship
and destroy the Autobots.
[loud clatter]
What the…? What are you doing?
Whose side are you on?
Mine.
-[monitor trills]
-[impact clatter]
Agh! That maniac's gonna kill us all!
[grunts]
Well then, don't just stand there!
We have to get these weapons back online!
-[weapon fires]
-[impact clatter]
[Elita] I don't understand.
This place should be swarming.
-Maybe we got lucky.
-We'll proceed as planned.
Keep the comms open and adapt as needed.
It's completely empty,
like they're just waiting
for the next batch.
Yeah, still quiet out here, too.
I don't know where Megatron went,
but maybe he left with the whole family.
[sighs]
It's just the eye of the storm, Jetfire.
Do not let your guard down.
[grunts]
[charge beeps]
-OK, Decepticons…
-[console beeping]
[Elita] Where did you go?
[thrum]
[weapon cocks]
All alive, mighty Megatron.
We can negotiate terms face-to-face.
All I need to know
is where you want to take delivery
of this Optimus Prime
and his Autobot crew.
[gasps] Optimus.
[thrum]
[gasps and grunts]
[weapon cocks]
[murmurs]
Jetfire, tell the Guardians
to begin their assault.
[thrum]
[Jetfire] What? Guardians?
-We don't have--
-[sighs] Fine.
Patch me to Omega Supreme,
and I'll give the order myself.
[thrum]
-[Shockwave grunts]
-[Elita grunts]
Cloaking tech, Shockwave?
Impressive, isn't it?
You're into hiding,
I'm into fighting.
-[thrum]
-[Elita grunts]
-[impact clatter]
-[air whistling]
[Prime grunts]
[air whistling]
[metal creaking]
[Megatron] The Allspark waits
on the planet's surface,
but only for one of us.
I am going down to that planet
to get what we came for!
No, I will retrieve it
to keep you from abusing its power
and enslaving our world!
[growls] What I did,
I did for Cybertron!
You cannot save a world
while murdering its people!
[loud explosion]
[Prime yells]
[yells]
Hound, reroute auxiliary energon
to the forward disrupters.
[impact clatter]
We need to amplify our distress call.
Soundwave,
do you wanna survive this or not?
[grunts] Do it!
[console beeping]
[Bumblebee] Anybody seen Cog?
I need a status on the deflector shields!
Down 13%.
One more direct hit and we're--
-[impact clatter]
-[Bumblebee groaning]
[system powering down]
That's it?
We're just going to die here then?
Not if Wheeljack made it.
[air whistling]
-[Exhaust] This is the last breach.
-All right.
Let's seal it up
before you-know-who takes it out on us.
-[air whistling]
-[objects whizzing]
Ah, I'm telling you,
as soon as we get back
to normal space, I'm out,
just like the others.
[Bug Bite grunts]
I kind of like the new paradigm.
-[weapon fires]
-[both grunt]
[Elita panting]
[keypad beeping]
[charges trilling]
[Elita grunts]
[thrum]
[scoffs] My stealth upgrade
gives me the upper hand, Elita-1.
Surrender and call off the Guardians.
[Elita groans] Oh, wow.
[groans]
You believed that?
-[grunts]
-[Shockwave groans]
-[electricity crackling]
-Think I broke your stealth thing.
[Shockwave growls]
That was not my only advantage.
[grunts]
[grunting]
[Elita grunts]
How have you gotten stronger?
[gasps]
You're draining Decepticon sparks
for yourself?
[Shockwave]
I am surviving the new Cybertron,
which is more than I can say for you!
[both grunting]
-[Shockwave snarls]
-[Elita grunts]
[grunting nervously]
[thrum]
-[thrum]
-[weapon cocks]
[thrum]
[Elita groans]
[groans]
[sighs]
-[Red Alert] What is it?
-I don't--
[Jetfire groans]
Hey, are you-- [groans]
[grunts]
-[gasps]
-[weapon cocks]
-[weapon fires]
-[Chromia groans]
-Chromia!
-[clatter]
[weapons cocking]
[Jetfire panting]
[gasps]
[Jetfire] By the Allspark.
[thrum]
No.
By Shockwave.
[charge trilling and ticking]
[Megatron groaning]
Mercy!
Please, Optimus.
I beg of you!
[panting]
-[electricity zapping]
-[Megatron grunts]
-[electricity crackling]
-[Prime groaning in agony]
-[clatter]
-[Prime groaning]
[electricity zapping]
-[mechanism clanks]
-That's it.
All reserves have been routed
to the bridge,
but it's not gonna last long.
-[monitor trills]
-Your weapons are down!
Your shields are disabled!
Prepare to be boarded.
Who's paying you, Doubledealer?
Payment?
No.
This is payback.
Payback? For what?
[Deseeus] For the loss of millennia!
For my solitary exile!
For thwarting my attempt at redemption!
And for the honor
of my fellow Quintessons!
[Bumblebee] Deseeus.
[Deseeus growls]
What do you think of this new face?
Unlike my old faces,
this one doesn't talk back.
[grunts] Is he even still alive?
He lives as long as I need him.
[impact clatter]
Give 'em everything we got!
[Sideswipe]
And then let's get back to the Ark.
-[firing continues]
-This place is gross.
[Deseeus] Bug Bite, Exhaust,
return to the bridge immediately!
All hands, report.
Report!
[growls]
[console beeping]
-[door opens]
-[Cog grunts]
Where have you been?
Man your stations!
[weapon cocks]
[Scrapface] You don't understand.
We all need to turn around now.
The place is rigged
with a ton of explosives.
[Spinister] Yeah?
And which of you is gonna set them off?
[chuckles]
[Scrapface] They're on a timer.
Trust me, brother, we have to go!
[charge trilling]
[groaning]
[groaning nervously]
[gasps]
-[charge trilling]
-[footsteps]
[comm beeps]
[Spinister]
We captured the traitors, Shockwave.
[Shockwave] I am on my way.
[clanking]
-[Hound] Got it!
-[Bumblebee] Status?
[console beeping]
The Fortune's stopped firing.
Maybe Deseeus has had enough.
[Ironhide] Or he's dead.
Either way,
Wheeljack needs to stop firing.
[monitor trills]
[Ironhide] I'm reading a massive breach
to the Fortune's warp actuator.
If one of their blasts hits that plasma…
Tell them to stand down
and get back to the Ark to start repairs.
When that thing blows,
we're gonna want these engines
up and running.
And I just realized.
I'm sorry, Ironhide,
this chair is yours.
[Ironhide] Naw, you did great, kid.
And it ain't mine. It's Prime's.
[Arcee] Where is Optimus Prime?
And where are the Decepticons?
Just get those engines up and running.
I'll go look for Optimus.
[Cog] Get away from the console!
[Deseeus growling]
[impact clatter]
[Cog groans]
[Deseeus snarls]
-[grunts]
-[Cog groans]
[pants]
If anyone out there can hear,
this is Cog.
[impact clatter]
I have taken control
of the mercenary ship.
Cease fire.
Repeat…
[impact clatter]
…cease fire.
[strained grunting]
[grunting]
[charge trilling]
All right, Shockwave is going to--
-[weapon fires]
-[Spinister groans]
[Decepticon grunts]
-[weapon fires]
-[Decepticon groans]
[weapon cocks]
No! I helped you! Remember?
[groans]
[grunts]
-[tires screeching]
-[engine revs]
[charge trills and beeps]
[engine revving]
[Autobots yelling]
[Prime groaning]
[Prime] What did you do to me?
Relax, Optimus.
Or should I say,
"Orion"?
[dazed groan]
[Prime] For what reason
would you want the Matrix of Leadership?
You say you have foreseen things.
Well, so have I.
The fate of the entire universe
being in my hands
at the right place and time.
So this is how it ends.
But unlike you,
I do not crave
forgiveness.
[weapon charging up]
-[weapon firing]
-[Megatron groaning]
[growling]
[Prime grunting]
[Bumblebee grunts] Optimus!
Megatron has the Matrix!
[Prime] And he will soon have the Allspark
if we do not stop him.
[Bumblebee grunts]
We don't have engines,
and that ship out there is about to blow.
-I don't know if we're gonna make it.
-[Prime] We must.
Or we risk the end of all things.
[dramatic music plays]
[Prime groans and grunts]
Wheeljack, do we have thrusters?
[Wheeljack] Maybe 15%.
[Prime] Fire to port.
Put the Nemesis between us
and the Fortune.
[Wheeljack] Firing!
Shields aren't responding!
[Hound] Sir, the Nemesis is pulling away!
They'll rip us apart!
[ship creaking]
[Prowl] The Fortune's engine core
has reached critical!
[Prime] Shields!
Divert all power to the shield.
[resounding blast]
[fades to silence]
[dramatic music plays]
[birds warbling]
[objects whizzing]
[distant impact rumbling]
[dramatic music intensifying]
[trilling]
[music ends]
[theme music plays]